So most of us here are migrants. We have moved for opportunities
and a better life for ourselves and our children. There are three quarters
of a billion workers globally who migrate within their countries. Some go to the nearest town
for a short duration, and some travel thousands of miles
for months, even years, leaving all they know,
including their families, behind. These migrants work
at a construction site, manufacturing units, agriculture fields. But unlike us, they are not migrating
for opportunities, but to survive. The majority of them are poor, working for very low wages
and lack safety nets. Many face hunger, debt and exploitation. Without safety nets, one job loss,
one health emergency, undermine years of effort and keep them trapped
in the cycles of poverty. I come from India. India is the fastest-growing
economy in the world and home to 200 million internal migrants. These migrants directly contribute
at least 10 percent in our three-trillion GDP, but they lack safety nets. What's remarkable is that we have
a huge safety-net system in India which provides various benefits like cash transfer, food subsidy,
health care, insurance. In fact, there are 7,000
benefits available with billions of dollars allocated
for the poor, including migrants. And evidence shows that these
benefits help in a huge way. And globally, safety nets [help]
reduce poverty by 40 percent. But migrants [can’t] access them
and access is not very easy. Most do not know about the benefit. If they do, requirements
are too complex and too many for the migrants
who are daily-wage earners. So the money and programs exist, but the delivery system
is just not working. And this is what our team and partners
at Migrant Resilience Collaborative are trying to fix. Our goal is simple. We build resilience and ensure dignity
of the migrant community. For this, we have adopted
a two-pronged strategy. Our team, over 1,000 people, themselves
come from the migrant community, helps millions across 100 districts to overcome the challenges in the delivery and access of their benefits. And at the same time, we establish a feedback loop
from the community to the government and industry. So we can improve the underlying system, policy design and accountability
to fix the system long-term for tens of millions more. In just two and a half years, what we started as an audacious idea, is today the planet’s largest grassroots-led collaborative 
for the migrants and has helped
over three million households for the social security benefits. Benefits for the people like Suresh. We met Suresh when he was looking
for daily job work in Mumbai. Let's hear from him. (Video) Suresh Waidande: My wife and I
work very hard to ensure that our children do not have to do hard labor, that they get a good education. My name is Suresh Bhimrao Waidande. I'm from the Khatav Block
of Satara district. I got tired of being poor and quit school
to work for daily wages. I decided that I had
to work hard to survive and make sure that I could feed my family. So I came to Mumbai. When I arrived I took the Koyna Express
from Satara to Mumbai. It was my first time taking a train. I saw mountains, valleys,
canyons and tunnels. The atmosphere was so different. For my first job, I was paid
something like 30-40 rupees a day (less than 50 cents USD). As a daily laborer,
there are many problems. and some are really difficult to overcome. If workers take on jobs
without proper identification or attendance cards
[to track their hours], they can potentially lose payment. Sometimes the employer doesn't pay
for your travel like they should, or they promise you work
and then give it to someone else. There is a lot of injustice. Such information is shared by Jan Sahas. But not everything
about our work is formal, so they ask us to be careful and aware. They provide us information
about our rights. And assure us of support
if we are treated unfairly or face any injustice. Whether it's Mumbai
or any other city in India, the country cannot survive
without workers like us. The great poet Annabhau Sathe used to say, this land is not resting on Earth
but on callused hands of workers. The only way that any town,
village or country can develop is through the hard labor of workers. (Applause) AS: With support of our team, Suresh has access to food security, insurance and a hope to continue
education for his children. (Applause) And most importantly, most importantly, knowledge on how to access
his rights and entitlements. Let me leave you with this. With climate change, the migration is set to grow
at an unprecedented scale in our countries. We will scale our program
across south and southeast Asia to share our work with the world. There are hundreds of millions
of people who work very hard to build modern society
from the ground up. The buildings where we live or work in, the airport, the big hotels, but yet none of these
[are] accessible for them. This is the moment where we should
recognize their contribution. And ensure they will
no longer be invisible or ignored. They belong. We do this work to honor their dignity. Thank you. (Applause)